Add the standalone hub templates design (#134)
open-cluster-management-io/enhancements: enhancements/sig-policy/134-standalone-hub-templates/README.md

# Standalone Hub Templates

## Release Signoff Checklist

- [ ] Enhancement is `implementable`
- [ ] Design details are appropriately documented from clear requirements
- [ ] Test plan is defined
- [ ] Graduation criteria for dev preview, tech preview, GA
- [ ] User-facing documentation is created in
      [website](https://github.com/open-cluster-management-io/open-cluster-management-io.github.io/)

## Summary

To support Open Cluster Management (OCM) hub templates without the policy framework, this feature provides an additional

> `governance-standalone-hub-templating` addon which generates a user per cluster on the hub to be leveraged by the

Reviewer: Does this mean cluster -> managedcluster on hub?

Author: Yes, the user is on the hub but unique per managed cluster.

Configuration Policy controller for hub template resolution. The OCM hub administrator will be responsible for granting
`list` and `watch` permissions to the resources needed by the hub templates. A sample `ConfigurationPolicy` can be a way
to automate this for a cluster set.

## Motivation

When an Open Cluster Management (OCM) policy user deploys their policies with external tools such as Argo CD, the hub
templating functionality is lost. This is often a critical feature for large scale deployments and prevents users from
choosing an external tool if they require an alternative to the OCM policy framework.

### Goals

1. Support hub templates for `ConfigurationPolicy` and `OperatorPolicy` when deployed through an external tool such as
   Argo CD.
1. Hub templates should resolve when referenced objects are updated on the hub.
1. Policies can still be evaluated if the managed cluster is disconnected from the hub.
1. Permissions to the hub are per managed cluster.
1. Provide a hub only `ConfigurationPolicy` to provide permissions to cluster sets.

> 1. It must work without the rest of the policy framework on the managed cluster.

Reviewer: Why goals are all number 1. Is this correct?

Author: It's a Markdown shortcut to let Markdown do the ordering when rendered.

### Non-Goals

1. `CertificatePolicy` and Gatekeeper constraints will not be directly supported. It can be wrapped in a
   `ConfigurationPolicy` if hub templates are needed for those.
1. Updating a `ConfigurationPolicy` definition with hub templates while disconnected from the hub is not explicitly
   supported. This will almost always work based on the proposed design as long as there aren't new hub template API

>    queries, but if the update happened while the hub and Configuration Policy controller were offline, it will not work.

Reviewer: I’m confused. The goal says, 'Policies can still be evaluated if the managed cluster is disconnected from the hub,' but it also states, 'If the hub and Configuration Policy controller are offline, it won’t work.' I don’t understand the difference.

Reviewer: To me "Policies can still be evaluated if the managed cluster is disconnected from the hub." doesn't make sense to me. Can we add more to this sentense

Author: I added more details. Does this make sense now?

Reviewer: Perfect THanks!!

## Proposal

### Design

#### New governance-standalone-hub-templating Addon

Currently, hub templates are resolved by the Governance Policy Propagator as part of the replicated `Policy` creation.
In standalone mode, the Governance Policy Propagator and the Governance Policy Framework are not part of the equation.
Because of this, the simplest and most reliable approach is to add hub template support in the Configuration Policy
controller.

A way to achieve this is to create an additional addon that is **disabled** by default called
`governance-standalone-hub-templating`. Enabling this addon will cause the following:

- The addon framework creates a user/subject represented by a certificate on the hub for each managed cluster. There

>   will be no permissions assigned to it.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  will be no permissions assigned to it initially.
```

Reviewer 2: We might want to consider starting it with some common permissions, if those aren't controversial? Like cluster claims and managed cluster labels?

Reviewer 3: Ah, good point. The corresponding ManagedCluster name and labels makes sense to keep the experience consistent. The ClusterClaims are deployed on the managed cluster, so those are accessible already.

Author: Good point! I'll add that.

> - The addon framework will also create a `Secret` in the `open-cluster-management-agent-addon` namespace with the hub

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- The addon framework will create a `Secret` in the addon namespace on the managed cluster with the hub
```

hub. With this in mind, the user's intentions are safe to assume when a hub template is encountered.

When the Configuration Policy controller has standalone hub templating mode enabled, it should instantiate a separate
`TemplateResolver` with the `governance-standalone-hub-templating` hub user and resolve hub templates (i.e.
`{{hub ... hub}}`) prior to managed cluster templates (i.e. `{{ ... }}`). By default, this `TemplateResolver` will have
no permission on the hub cluster. The hub administrator must grant `list` and `watch` permissions on the objects
accessed by hub templates. The error messages for lack of permissions are clear due to the work done in the "Expand Hub
Template Access on Policies" feature.

If the changes stopped here, the case where the managed cluster is always connected to the hub would work well. Short
disconnects would be okay since objects referenced by the hub templates are cached. Once the Configuration Policy
controller restarts and thus the cache is cleared, the policy could no longer be evaluated due to hub template
resolution failing.

> The proposed solution is for the Configuration Policy controller to create a `Secret` named `<policy UID>-last-resolved`

Reviewer 2: I like this - using the UID avoids a potential issue where the name could otherwise be too long.
